hello and welcome to march 2021
i'm going to answer all of your ielts
questions and remember you too can
ask a question in the comments below but
make sure your question is
specific okay not too broad and i'll do
my best to answer it
okay let's get started okay so here's
one from mehmat
jay can you please explain the ppf
method for ielts
speaking okay sure so
ppf stands for past present and future
and we use this method of talking about
the past the present
and maybe even the future in part two of
your ielts speaking
in part two of ielts speaking that's
where you get given the little task card
and you need to speak for two minutes on
a specific
topic and this is difficult to sustain
speech for more than say like 60 seconds
on a specific topic
telling one specific story so ppf
allows you to tell three stories past
present and future you don't run out of
ideas your language is much more
interesting because you're using verb
tenses from the past in the present
maybe the future for example
if you want to learn more you can check
out the methods lesson on e2language.com
it's a good method mo jay i have a
question
i have my exam on the 25th i love your
ppf method for speaking but i need to
confirm that the cue card says
a like talk about a teacher for example
so is it okay to talk about three
different stories
okay so the answer is yes it is
absolutely fine to talk about three
different stories however
some ielts speaking examiners i've heard
actually
say something to the candidate if they
talk about three stories so
what i recommend you do is just start
talking about
a present or a teacher or a
gift or whatever it was that your
speaking card is about okay
so it might be the past one first and
then when you've exhausted the past
story
then move on to the present story and
talk about another
gift teacher present whatever it is and
maybe if you have time left you can talk
about that future gift
teacher whatever that you wanted to get
okay so make it a little
less explicit that you're telling
three stories but otherwise this method
is great
i've taken this test five times i've
used the ppf method five times four of
the times i got nine
one of the times i got 8.5 i don't know
why i got 8.5 but there you go
so plus not just me but hundreds and
hundreds of ielts candidates have used
ppf
to great success next question
is from gian what is the best
writing structure in ielts example
double idea
paragraph structure okay
john that's a good question the answer
to that one is
it depends you need to use the single
idea paragraph
structure if you're talking about a
single idea
for example the question might ask you
what caused this
something like that a single cause
therefore you use the single paragraph
structure but sometimes you need to talk
about the
advantages or the problems
plural in which case you need to talk
about more than one
in that case you use the double idea
paragraph structure so
in short when you're talking about the
paragraphs for your essay
you need to learn both structures and
use them
accordingly on test day mishka
asks sir jay do you believe in aliens
what do you think they look like
p.s your cool bananas mishka i'm glad
you asked this question about whether
there are aliens out there
communicating with me now
out there in the universe what color are
you green of course they're green
they had to be green and they have big
eyes and they're kind of
cute and i'm sure they're very friendly
all right next one prasanna rani jay
could you please make a video on
instructions of a map
in listening okay so prasanna yes i
understand in the listening section
of the ielts test you often have to do a
map labeling completion task and it can
be quite confusing
uh what i recommend you do is in the
description below there's a link to a
particular video that alex made on this
task
please watch that okay next one
t gussel yakova e2 team you are the best
totally agree with you there next
question it's
chemist waffa hi jay i have difficulty
in developing ideas for writing i have
to give
general training ielts please reply how
can i
improve okay so chemist wafa good news
is in writing task 1 for general you
don't
really need to come up with any ideas
the ideas are given to you
in the dot points on your little task
card you do need to be
a little bit imaginative because you
need to expand these out
but otherwise it's pretty
straightforward
now for the essay what i encourage you
to do is to make a short little plan
before you start writing okay so
read that topic the question prompt of
the essay very carefully
you've got enough time to think and plan
even spend you know
three maybe even four minutes on the
plan maybe not that long
three minutes on the plan write down
your plan and then start writing okay so
don't
just start writing without a plan
because that would be problematic
amrutha lakshmi explain about ielts
writing
all right i'm ruther let's take it right
back and imagine you're doing ielts
writing for the first
time in fact forget everything you've
ever learned how
are you going to write that essay
okay there are a number of things that
you need to be aware of
first of all read the question prompt
very carefully and
only write about that question prompt
the single biggest mistake that ielts
candidates make
in writing is that they write off topic
that is
they don't read it carefully or they
read it but then start writing about
something else okay so
stay on topic of course you're going to
be
trying to write grammatically accurate
sentences but you also need to be aware
of grammatical range
that means that you write a number of
different sentence structures
structure is also important that is the
structure of the entire essay
the structure of your paragraphs and as
i mentioned the structure of your
sentences you also need to be aware of
vocabulary and just like grammar you
need to show a
vocabulary range that is you're not
repeating keywords again and again
you're using good synonyms or good
paraphrases
so if you keep those things in mind
that's how you'll get a good score in
ielts and that's exactly what we cover
in our methods lessons which are
all on e2language.com and these are also
covered in the live classes with the
expert
teacher so check that out on the website
supna yadav jay i have given ielts four
times now i've got 6.5 in writing in
three of them since i skip words while
writing a sentence
and not able to proofread my work
accurately at the end is the reason
yes you just skipped a word there
actually i am not able to proofread
can you please provide some tips on how
to proofread
okay subnet so you've actually
identified your issue which is skipping
words so
don't skip words make sure you've got
full sentences with
the subject verb and an object that
seems like your issue
there but with regard to proof reading
this is really difficult it's very
difficult for you to identify what
you've done
wrong if you knew you'd done it wrong
you wouldn't have done it wrong in the
first place
this is why feedback is so important in
the early stages of your preparation
right you want to write the essay send
it off to an
expert who would then give you feedback
on it in terms of its grammar
structure whether it's on topic etc okay
that's exactly what we do at e2 language
but on test day with regard to
proofreading
if you know what your common errors are
you can check that you haven't made
those mistakes before saying okay that's
as good as i can do
smart casual what's heavier a kilogram
of steel or a kilogram of feathers
nearly got me there smart casual i think
they both weigh the same
farooq hello can you please explain how
to boost
reading so farooq two critical things
you need to be aware of to boost your
reading score
first fundamental skills do you have a
wide
vocabulary and are you able to
understand
all of the words on the page in short
can you understand the text
because that's the first part you need
to understand
what you read okay second part is do you
understand the ielts question
do you understand how to do a true false
not given or match information or
match headings etc okay and also
do you understand it in terms of time
management that is
can you read the text quickly can you
answer the question quickly because you
understand the reading method
okay so there's some things to think
about there
usama how can i improve my speaking
because i have not any foreign people to
deal with
usama this is a good question yeah so
what
can you do if you don't have access to
native speakers to practice with
one of the things you can do is check
out a new website that we've created
called e2school.com
it's kind of like the sister website to
e2language.com
on e2 language you do your test prep on
e2 school you do your
skill building one of the courses we
have on e2 school
is called speaking lab and it's a
pronunciation
improvement course so that's one thing
you can do check that out that will help
you
varun walia hey are reading and
listening
answers case insensitive okay varun so
in short on the paper-based test you can
just write in capital letters
and on the computer-based test you must
have case sensitivity that is you can't
just write in capital letters
either way just write it properly for
example if the
if you're writing about a capital city
like paris use a capital p
smaller case a r i s for example or a
person's name has a capital letter
so just try and use the proper case
sensitivity
chirag hi i would just let you know that
the videos for writing task 2
posted in 2017 2018 do not have clear
information on the structure and types
of essays expected
if you can kindly guide from which video
of yours to start referring for part two
writing
so that it will be easier to understand
thanks chirug well pointed out now
all of the latest methods lessons the
most up-to-date
methods lessons are in fact on the
website e2language.com
some of the most up-to-date lessons are
on youtube but all of them are on the
platform so check them out there
senaan ala hi my english level
proficiency is
intermediate can i get a seven band at
academic ielts test if
yes how thanks a lot senan the answer to
this one is
probably not there's no way to game
the ielts test the methods lessons are
extremely helpful
if you already have the level of
proficiency that you need
that will sort of boost your score a
little bit but if you're
lacking the skills vocabulary grammar
pronunciation
and you're trying to jump from here to
here like an ielts 6 to an ielts 7 or
whatever you need it
it's i'm going to say it's impossible
you need to build your language skills
it
is a language test you cannot game this
test
as much as some people on youtube will
tell you that next question
where are you from just curious
that's a very good question
[Music]
let's just say it's interplanetary nora
what's the deal with your obsession with
ielts ielts this ielts that like come on
man come up with something original
once you're driving me up the wall nora
first of all great question i actually
have other interests in life
besides ielts but um this is my job this
is what i do for a job i
i prepare people for the ielts test but
feel free to ask me about my other
interests in life
habiba hi jay i watched a lot of videos
for writing task 2 and i saw that many
teachers showed different categories
that were not matching with your writing
categories
these different categories make me
confusion what can i do
okay so this is kind of a broader
question that you need to ask yourself
which is
where do i prepare or with whom do i
prepare
because you can watch all the different
teachers
lessons on ielts writing or ielts
speaking or whatever and it can be very
confusing because they have conflicting
advice
one of the things that i would like to
suggest you is that e2 language really
understands the ielts test
in fact over the last sort of four or
five years of building out our ielts
preparation
platform we have consulted the experts
at idp we've done
huge amounts of homework alex actually
was an ielts examiner for 10 years so
she knows the
ielts writing back to front and ielts
speaking back to front
so do select one preparation provider
and stick with them and try
not to go across multiple providers
because it will be confusing
alvirah fernandez jay i need your help
in reading please especially true false
not given and
multiple choice questions don't know if
this was addressed before
all right let's start with true false or
not given so you have a statement right
then you have your
text the statement is either going to
say the same thing
as the text in different words in which
case it will be true
it will be contradictory in which case
it will be false
or there just won't be enough
information about it in which case it
will be
not given it's pretty much exactly the
same for yes
no not given yes no not given just asks
about opinions but again
is the opinion the same is the opinion
contradictory or is there not enough
information to determine
what the opinion is so that's true false
not given
yes no not given in a nutshell i
encourage you to watch the methods
lessons on e2 language
as for multiple choice questions well
they're about
understanding key words in the question
prompts
finding the corresponding part of the
text
reading carefully eliminating answer
options that are incorrect because they
contradict
or perhaps are not given and selecting
the answer option that says the same
thing
but in different words okay that was a
very quick
analysis of what you need to do but
again i encourage you to watch the
methods lessons
anae i gave the ielts academic in 2018
and scored a 7.5 on
writing recently i gave the ielts
general and got a
seven on writing i want to know about
your experience in challenging the ielts
scores and if i should do it
let's start with that part of the
question first
the question is should i challenge my
ielts
writing score if like on a
you're quite confident that you did
better than the score you received okay
my experience is that it works to
challenge your writing score
only if you walk out of that exam
thinking yes i did really well i wrote a
really good essay i wrote a really good
task mine i'm confident
then you get your scores and you think
what i only got
seven for example then yes i would
challenge it it's a bit of a gamble
because you need to pay money
to challenge it if you are in fact
correct and they increase the score you
get your money back so it's kind of
win-win
so i would consider that what's the
second part of your question
all my other band scores were 8.5 or 9
and thus it is a bit surprising to me
that my writing went down as i have
moved to an english-speaking country and
studying for my masters
again it sounds to me like you should
challenge that writing score it
seems well just from looking at your
writing here it seems like you're a good
writer
anton what's the most you've ever lost
in a coin toss
deciding which end of the field to kick
in football i guess
aj if i need e2 ielts course
two months what is the price aj
so it's very good value for money it
starts at
49 us dollars and that actually gives
you six
months access even with that 49
you get 25 live classes so it's like
just a tiny fraction over two dollars
per live class and those live classes
are excellent
plus you get all the practice materials
the methods lessons
and heaps more so challenge that with
your local language school
i dare say we're cheaper mystery mystery
does
handwriting matter in ielts writing task
mystery mystery the answer is no but it
must be
legible that is the examiner's need to
be able to understand it if it's
really messy then it will actually
affect your score but
if it's fine to read but perhaps not the
prettiest handwriting
doesn't matter they won't judge you on
the quality of your handwriting
lin you're so cute hahaha
says lynn thanks lynn edison
sir jay you rock where do we go when we
sleep
oh edison this is the question
of the day so it seems like we go to two
places when we sleep
one is dreamland which is bizarrely
similar to our waking
state right it's almost like it feels
completely real some of the dreams i had
last night were just
crazy but felt completely re i won't
tell you what was happening in my dreams
it was really strange
felt real colors shapes smells
everything was there right but then
there's another place you go when you
sleep which is deep
sleep where everything just completely
disappears there is absolutely nothing
there
except for like this lovely warm energy
oh
god i love sleeping fun bro thank you so
much i got an overall seven band in
ielts academic
good stuff morgenthau that's what it's
all about nitu
hi jay i need help with multiple choice
questions in listening specifically
those with lengthy statements
need to i hear you these questions
are challenging because really you're
doing two things at once you're
listening
very carefully to the audio but then
you're trying to very quickly
read the statements and keep that
question in your mind at the same time
as listening
and what the mind can't do is listen and
read at the same time
so you sort of have to listen read
listen read listen read
it does require practice the other thing
is you need to keep that question in
your mind
simplify the question and keep it in
your mind okay
i can't really give you an answer an
example here because
i can't think of one but um go and do
some practice on e2
simplify the question keep it in your
mind listen
and then quickly read listen quickly
read listen quickly read
and see if that helps omorin bola
morjisola
hello jay will i use the same writing
structure for
to what extent did you agree essay and
agree disagree
essay a maureen bowler the answer is
yes with a slight change because if they
ask you
to what extent do you agree or disagree
you have to say i completely agree i
sort of agree
i slightly agree i slightly disagree or
something like that so it's on a
continuum
it's not just i agree you can
wholeheartedly or completely agree
but you'll have to say that so really in
those ones we're looking for an
adverb with slightly wholeheartedly
completely
something like that so yes apart from
the
introduction where you'll make that
little you'll make that clear
it's all pretty much the same but again
read that question
very carefully and respond appropriately
with the correct paragraph structure
srinivas can i take tests in idp or
british council
i think srinivas is asking should i take
the test at idp or british council
the answer is it doesn't matter these
people the examiners
are trained exactly the same so they're
going to mark your writing and mark your
speaking
exactly the same and the reading and
listening sections of the test
will be exactly the same because they're
all produced back at cambridge
university in the uk
so i wouldn't worry too much about which
exam center you choose
eduardo i took the test for the first
time in january with only two weeks to
prepare i have to say thank you your
videos are so helpful
i found the writing part the hardest but
your tips and advice were key to succeed
by the way i passed good stuff
eduardo that's what we like to hear next
question
is from suyon where's the money lebowski
uh if you haven't seen a movie called
the the the
the big lebowski i highly recommend you
watch it
it is really funny
and there's a part on that where he gets
hassled because somebody peed on the rug
and
goes on and on but great movie we asks
what is it you can't face i can face
anything we
because what is there that can't be
faced
or that you can't face hollywood special
i want to know similar or exact meaning
of the words
used in map listening test such as a
long
past of the building across beside etc
these words make me lose the flow and
concentration and i start thinking about
them then lose the remaining
conversation as well
however i do know the meaning of some of
them please make a video specifically on
the map
vocabulary hollywood special you are
talking about
prepositions of location and movement
hmm so these are words like as you
mentioned along across besides
opposite words like these these is
opposite of preposition
yes i think it is these are prepositions
of movement or location feel free to
google them you'll get a big list
problem is do they exist in your first
language and can you do a one-to-one
translation or do you have to learn the
english one
the other thing that you can do is go to
e2school.com there's a free
grammar course and it has a section on
prepositions of location and movement
e2school.com minato why is the six
sick sheik's six sheeps sick
that's a silly question isn't it the
sheep is obviously sick of this shake
sylvia what's your skin care routine
sophia that is a good question because i
am very paranoid about getting wrinkles
so
first of all i've stopped getting
sunburned
so i use sun cream and a hat now and the
sun in australia is
crazy and then i also moisturize because
yeah my dad's got these big wrinkles on
his forehead and i'm trying to avoid
them
oni asks jay do you have any free
courses
yes you can sign up for free at e2
language and you can sign up for the
free ielts course which gives you
free live classes and some free practice
questions
and did i mention that it's absolutely
free to sign up for the free course
maureen jay when answering the question
do you think advantages
outweigh disadvantages do you write your
opinion in body paragraph one and two or
is it only in the introduction and
conclusion
okay maureen so there's sort of two
questions here do i think i should go
for advantages or disadvantages
it completely depends on the question
and what you think
okay so first thing you should do is ask
yourself
do i think the advantages outweigh the
disadvantages or do you think there's
more disadvantages
so select a side in short choose a side
because that's the side
you're going to argue for okay next
thing you need to be very clear on
is your position so let's say you've
chosen to
go with the advantages the advantages
outweigh the disadvantages
mention that in your introduction
mention it in body paragraph one
body paragraph two and the conclusion
your position
the side that you chose must be clear
throughout your entire
essay not just mentioned once or twice
okay next question is from kala chakra
kosha ududesha which one would you
suggest
computer-based ielts test or the
paper-based ielts test
okay the answer to this one is that the
computer-delivered ielts test
is superior to the paper-based ielts
test
the main reason is that in the writing
section if you take the paper-based test
you have to write your essay and your
task 1 with a pencil
i don't know about you but i just don't
use a pencil
anymore and i haven't used a pencil
since i was like
12 years old so it makes it really
challenging
whereas in the computer delivered ielts
test in the writing section
you get to type and i can type really
fast
and even though you get the same amount
of time because i can type fast
means i i finish my essay more quickly
means i can fix it i can edit it i can
add things in i can delete parts out i
can move parts
and you just end up writing a better
quality essay and therefore
you increase your chances of getting a
higher score
cool that will do us for march 2021
if you have any burning questions that
you want
answered then put them into the comments
below and make them specific
also in the description below you'll
find the ielts ultimate guide which you
can download for free so check that out
otherwise hopefully i'll see you across
on e2language.com
see you soon